"The Pink City"
Jaipur Tourism
Jaipur is a vibrant amalgamation of the old and the new. The capital of the royal state of Rajasthan, Jaipur has been ruled by Rajput kingdoms for many centuries and developed as a planned city in the 17th century AD. Along with Delhi and Agra, Jaipur forms the Golden Triangle, one of the most famous tourist circuits of the country.

With the old city surrounded by walls and gates decorated with drawings on the backdrop of a beautiful pink hue, Jaipur, the pink city successfully manages to retain its old world charm. Home to a few UNESCO World Heritage sites including Amer Fort and Jantar Mantar, Jaipur is home to many magnificent forts, palaces, temples and museums. Jaipur is filled to the brim with bustling local bazaars where you can shop for local handicrafts and trinkets to your heart's content. Popular bazaars in the city include Bapu Bazaar, Tripolia Bazaar and Johri Bazaar. Jaipur is also very well known for its local food and the most famous dishes include the Ghewar, Pyaaz Kachori and Dal Baati Churma.

One of the largest cities in India, Jaipur is also home to all the modern amenities with some of the most exotic hotels and resorts in the world. The city boasts an international airport and is also very well connected by rail and road. The metro, local buses, shared tuk-tuks, auto-rickshaws and taxi aggregator apps including Uber and Ola solve the commute problem in the city quite comfortably. It's quite interesting to see the highly urbanised pockets and shopping areas have casually sprung up beside gleaming forts and palaces.

Majestic buildings, tales of heroic battles, resplendent forts and palaces, and multi-faceted characters, Jaipur has long been one of the shiniest cultural jewels in the history of the Indian subcontinent. With friendly people known for their hospitality, Jaipur offers a plethora of options for travellers. 



"The Open Gallery Of Rajasthan"
Shekhawati Tourism
Shekhawati is a semi-arid getaway full of open air galleries, enchanting havelis & palaces and legendary forts. This region has been recognised as the open art gallery of Rajasthan"" having the largest concentration of frescos in the world."

Shekhawati has a history similar to that of Nawalgarh where in the Marwari men went to cities like Bombay and Calcutta in search of work and the time they found success and their businesses flourished, that is exactly when these plush havelis emanated. One businessman competed with the other in showing off his wealth, this continued on and on and finally, what the business families of Shekhawati got was an affluent city to live in. The inhabitants of Shekhawati are considered brave, sacrificing and hard working people. The region provides one of the highest number of people to the Indian Army. Hence, this location makes up for a dreamscape for all those wishing to get a blast from the past.







"City of Pride and Honor"
Chittorgarh Tourism
A depository of ancient monuments, an extremely rich heritage, and an immortal folklore boasting of its majestic glory, every building in Chittorgarh still reverberates with the history of its sacrifice and heroism. The capital of the erstwhile kingdom of Mewar, Chittorgarh is a land of forts, citadels, ruins, and evergreen stories. Situated in the South Eastern corner of Rajasthan, Chittorgarh stands at the helm of Chattari Rajput pride, and is remembered in the pages of history for its glorious battles, especially the siege of Alauddin Khilji. Once known for its grandeur and opulence, today, Chittorgarh has left its tales of bravery and betrayal far behind to catch up to commercialization, but those stories of splendour and magnificence will never be forgotten.

Chittorgarh is known far and wide for its most famous attraction, the Chittorgarh fort, which is a gigantic fort built on a hilltop, spreading over an area of around 700 acres. Chittorgarh fort will always be remembered for the courageous self-sacrificing Jauhar performed by Rani Padmini to thwart the conquest of the fort by Alauddin Khilji, and thousands of tourists visit this place every year to take a look at the place that has been so prominently marked in the pages of history. Rana Kumbha Palace is the largest structure in Chittorgarh fort, and while it is now a mere tumbledown structure of broken walls and piles of stones, it was once a magnificent three-storied palace with gigantic pillars, maze-like underground tunnels and intricately designed architecture. The most famous attraction in Chittorgarh fort is the Rani Padmini Palace, named after Queen Padmini herself. Replete with roof pavilions and water moats, the story of Queen Padmini’s valour rings out loud in every corner of this dilapidated building.

Other sights to visit in Chittorgarh include the Meera Temple, the Kali Mata temple, the Gaumukh reservoir, and the Bassi Wildlife Sanctuary.

FREE Download Manali Travel Guide
Free . Works Offline . Share Anywhere

More on Chittorgarh
History Of Chittorgarh
Chittorgarh or Chitrakuta, whose foundation was laid by Mauryan ruler Chitrangada Mori is an integral part of Rajputana history of Rajasthan. The city antecedes to tales from the time of Mahabharata which explains the origin of ‘Bhimtal’ lake kick-started by one of the five Pandavas, Bhima. Chittorgarh is famous for the legendary Rajput clans’ rulers including Rana Kumbha, Rana Sanga, Maharana Pratap, and Rana Rattan Singh, Rani Padmini and the mystic poetess and devotee of Lord Krishna, Mirabai. In 1303, Allaudin Khilji, most powerful ruler of Delhi Sultanate who was fascinated by Rani Padmini, attacked the kingdom of Chittor with vigour when he failed to keep Rana Rattan Singh as a hostage. Chittorgarh had already lost 7,000 Rajput warriors in rescuing Rana Rattan Singh. There was no chance of survival and none for surrender as well. Therefore, Rani Padmini along with the wives of soldiers, ministers and servants performed ‘Johar’. The ‘Johar kund’ is a very popular tourist attraction in contemporary times. Chittorgarh gained momentum when Maharana Pratap came to rule Mewar in 1572. Chittorgarh fort is also a home to Mirabai Temple which was built by the followers of Mirabai in her memory. Mirabai was born in a Rajput family of Pali, Rajasthan. Mirabai is known for her indifference to social conventions like her devotion to Lord Krishna and treating him as her husband. Many devotional poems and bhajans for Lord Krishna are attributed to Mirabai. She is one of the most famous poetesses of ‘Bhaktikal’.
Shopping In Chittorgarh
Chittorgarh is well-known for its shopping markets which have a lot of variety to offer like handicrafts, traditional dress materials, miniature paintings, wooden showpieces and crafty furniture, tie and dye dupattas and ethnic jewellery. Chittorgarh is also popular for its special Thewa jewellery, gold design carved on a glass. There are four popular markets for shopping:

Fort Road market
As the name suggests, this market is located on the way to Chittorgarh Fort. Thewa jewellery is available in every shop in the market. Apart from this, Fort Road market is famous for traditional embroidered mojaris and lehengas, items made out of camel leather and beautiful puppets.

Sadar Bazaar
Yet another popular market where you can buy exquisite traditional stuff, clothing, furniture, show pieces, especially puppets and accessories. Sadar Bazaar is a home to a number of malls and small-scale handicraft shops in the city.

Rana Sangha Market
Generally, all the city fairs are organized on the premises of Rana Sangha market. It is the best place to purchase akola fabrics, camel leather jootis, lac jewellery and earrings. In addition to this, you can buy colourful toys, bangles and dyed clothes embedded with glass work.

Gandhi Chowk
Here you can buy black metal souvenirs and mementoes for relatives, akola fabric and traditional Rajasthani attire.
Restaurants and Local Food in Chittorgarh
Chittorgarh's cuisine has little that standouts but a number of local roadside eating places as well as restaurants can be found here. Though the town has little to call unique, when it comes to food, but you will never run out of options here. You can find a number of food domains here, from Mughal cuisine, local Rajasthani food to typical vegetarian Indian food.
View 2 Restaurants in Chittorgarh >

Itinerary
Day 1- Arrive, check-in and rest. Then visit Chittorgarh fort and the Kirti Stambh. 
Day 2- Visit the local food joints, Vijay Stambh, Padmini's Palace and Kalika Mata Temple.







Kota Tourism
Kota, the third most populous city in Rajasthan, lies alongside the banks of River Chambal which is both its beauty as well as a lifeline, being the source of water supply to the city and a site of scenic beauty itself. Locals and tourists alike visit the river shores for watching crocodiles, sighting birds and for boat riding in general. Kota is famous for its thriving coaching culture and every year more than four lakh students visit and live in the city to receive training for engineering and medical entrance examinations. Not many cities witness such influx of students every year and this has earned the city various names such as  Education City of India and Coaching Capital of India.

It is also considered to be the second most livable city in Rajasthan after Jaipur and is becoming an industrial hub with numerous power plants in and around the city. Kota has also contributed to the rich fabric heritage of India with its trademark Kota Doriya (where Dora means thread) fabric which is known for its delicate, translucent thread weaving pattern, thus giving the textile its name.  The sturdy and dark Green coloured eponymous Kota stone also comes from the city and is traded all across the country for building projects of all kinds. Apart from a flourishing industrial scene, the city also offers a glimpse of history in the form of palaces and a flash of nature in the form of various gardens, the most famous being Chambal Udhyan.


More on Kota
The Coaching Capital of India
Kota is a fort based city situated in the state of Rajasthan. The third most populous city of Rajasthan after Jaipur and Jodhpur, Kota is emerging as an educational hotspot for the entrance exam aspirants from all over India, be it for Indian Institute of Technology or for All India Institute of Medical Sciences. No wonder why Kota is also nicknamed as the 'Coaching Capital of India'. However, there's more to Kota than what actually meets the eye. 
Kota is also famous for its clothes, particularly the fine woven muslins, also famous as Kota  Doria. Besides the above, Kota is also equally famous for its limestone, which is fine-grained, tough, and waterproof as well. So next time of Kota, just don't limit to drab coaching institutes only. There's a lot more to be explored.          
Restaurants and Local Food in Kota
Delicious combination of the wholesome Dal, Bati and Churma meaning a platter of lentils, wheat balls and cereals is staple in most parts of the state. Sweet dishes and desserts are also very popular in the region.







"The Queen of Hadoti"
Bundi Tourism
A princely state for a princely stay, in the northwest of India, lies the district of Bundi, in the Hadoti region of the royal state of Rajasthan. In ancient times, the area around Bundi was apparently inhabited by various local tribes.

Bundi was previously called 'Bunda-Ka-Nal"; Nal meaning 'narrow ways'. It is said to derive its name from a former Meena tribe man called Bunda Meena. Later the region was governed by Rao Deva Hada who took over Bundi from Jaita Meena in 1342 and established a princely state Bundi renaming the surrounding area called Hadoti the land of great Hada Rajputs. Bundi is home to some of the most magnificent palaces, majestic forts, its baolis (meaning water wells or step wells), haves, temples and chhatris with carved pillars. 

It is of great historical significance as it has been a witness to many battles and legendary tales of valor. Bundi is blessed with a plethora of nature along with a beautiful pattern of rivers and lakes and some enchanted waterfalls. The lushy lands of this area are host to a huge variety of flora and fauna. The picturesque sceneries of Bundi have inspired a lot of writers and artists. Situated at a distance of 210 km from Jaipur and 35 km from Kota surrounded by the Aravalli Range on three sides, this city lies near a narrow gorge. A substantial wall with four gateways encircles the city.


More on Bundi
A Warrior's Playground
Nicknamed so for being a mute witness to many historical wars, Bundi is a historic cum cultural town in the Hadoti region of the state of Rajasthan. Developed by Rao Deva Hada. Lying near a narrow gorge, surrounded by the Aravali Hills, Bundi is also naturally blessed with enchanting waterfalls. Besides, Bundi is also a host to a plethora of historically significant sites, whether from the Rajput perspective or the Mughal perspective.
Restaurants and Local Food in Bundi
This arid nature of this area and its history of wars and battles has had a huge influence on the cuisine of Rajasthan. The Marwari influence in this region has lead to an extremely dominant vegetarian variety, although meat too is popular. Due to the scarcity of water, this cuisine has incorporated the use of milk in its dishes, making it extremely popular not only locally but in other parts of the world too.
This cuisine is served traditionally in a thali, which is a large platter like plate with servings of multiple dishes at once. This traditional food culture here does not believe in the concept of a dessert after your meal but in including it before or during the meal itself. Its must try dishes are Dal Baati Churma, Gatte ki Sabzi, Laal Maas and Kesariya Murg.
View 5 Restaurants in Bundi >






"A beautiful hill station in Rajasthan"
Mount Abu Tourism
The only hill station of Rajasthan, its cool atmosphere and lush green surroundings make it a major tourist spot within the state. The most important attraction, however, are undoubtedly the Dilwara temples, which is one of the most stunning piece of architecture in the country. If you are a history or architecture buff, this is one of the places you should absolutely not miss out in India.

The exceptionally intricate architecture of the Dilwara temples are of course the main attraction here, and you can easily spend hours wondering how these temples were built over 2 centuries, almost a 1000 years back. The temples were specifically made so that they are plain from the outside to avoid attraction of plunderers, and have withstood the test of time extremely well. If architecture is not your thing, then there are various lakes and viewpoints such as the Honeymoon Point, Sunset Point, etc. Tourists enjoy calm and relaxed boating in the Nakki lake, and a view of the sunset from the Sunset point. The highest peak of the Aravali Range also lies in Mt. Abu, surrounded by dense green forests. Mt Abu will offer you all you can demand from a popular and typical destination of a romantic and simpler nature.

More on Mount Abu
History of Mount Abu
The most acclaimed Jain pilgrim site and the only pristine hill station in Rajasthan, Mount Abu is identified as the ‘Arbuda Mountains’ in the script of The Mahabharata. Entwined around the name of the mighty Hindu mythological snake Arbuda, the hill is believed to be a part of the “Arbudaanchal”. It is presumed that Arbuda accomplished the command of Shiva in closing the gorge that existed there and this event was cherished by christening the hill ‘Arbuda’. Drastically, it evolved as ‘Mount Abu’, which became an abode of religious devout. The folk stories depict that this serene mountain was visited frequently by most the Hindu Gods and Goddesses. Gaumukh, the residence of Sage Vashishth, is still a constant religious juncture of the Mount Abu. The paucity of information on Mount Abu draws difficulty in having a deeper insight into its history and development. The amusing fact about this place is that due to its difficult terrain and dense forest it was never invaded or attacked by foreign rulers. Few historical pieces of evidence portray that, this region was under the rule-Nagas, Bhillas, Solankis and Deora-Chauhan. With the support of the best architectures, the magnificent Dilwara temple was constructed under the rule of Solankis. But the quintessence of glory evolved only under the rule of ‘Gurjars’, and the place later became to be known as ‘Gurjarabhumi’. But then the glory and importance faded under the Mughal rule of Akbar. Later, with the emergence of British Raj, Mount Abu regained its importance and acquired the title - ‘the summer capital of Rajasthan’. In addition to that, The British installed few military cantonments and convent schools in this region. Coruscated and inspired by its mythic reference, Mount Abu remains as a fascinating destination, retaining its historical charm.
The Holy Retreat - Mount Abu
Mount Abu is a true holiday destination if you are seeking a little family time and also visit the great Hindu and Jain temples. The ancient Arbuda Devi Temple and Shri Raghunathji Temple which was carved out of a solid rock are also on the must visit list here. Guru Shikhar peak is the highest point over there and on top of it is Dattatreya, a shrine and a temple. Also, there are many Jain temples over there known as Dilwara Temples that are carved out of white marble. The temples are believed to be built in between 11th and 13th century. Out of all the Jain temples, the oldest is Vimal Vasahi temple which was built in 1021 AD in dedication to the first Jain Tirthankaras. Also, the place is the headquarters to Brahma Kumaris. A very well - known Shiva temple is also there known as Achaleshwar Mahadev Temple.
Wildlife Sanctuary and Nakki Lake
Mount Abu Forest Sanctuary is the forest between the Aravalli Mountain Range. It was officially declared in 1980 and has 288 square kilometres covered. The sanctuary has an abundance of flora and fauna. The forest is tropical and the prime predator over here is Leopard. There are many rare species found here which includes sambhar, wild boar, bear, pangolin, wolf, hyena, porcupine, hedgehog and many others. The sanctuary is also home to nearly 1250 species of birds amongst which Grey Jungle Fowl is the unique one. Another beautiful tourist attraction is the ancient sacred Lake Nakki. The place has many stories revolving it. Some say it was dug out by the Gods to take shelter from Demon Bashkali. Many other stories revolve around this lake. The place offers various trek for adventure seekers and also an amazing boat ride. The restaurants and eateries around the lake are a great place to eat local food at very cheap prices.
Restaurants and Local Food in Mount Abu
This popular and simple hill station has a cuisine of the same nature. Being a popular Jain pilgrim site, there are a large number of pure-veg restaurants, and you should expect little in the way of non-vegetarian food. There are a number of restaurants serving everything from local Rajasthani food to Punjabi and Chinese cuisines. You would find most of these restaurants clustered around the city center. We would recommend you go with the local food flavors and skip the chinese/punjabi options, if possible.